# likeyourkid
A parenting framework that helps you raise kids whom are likable by you and everyone around them. Forever free. Anyone who likes the ideas in here can feel free to take it and make it better. My goal is to have a great tool for parents to use, whether it's my tool or not is irrelevant.

# Why
Parenting is hard; we need all of the tools and help we can get. Kids are born into this world with different tempraments which gives them a tendency to do more or less of certain behaviors. When they behave "badly" all of the time, we get really frustrated, angry, stressed and drained. If you do not have a handle on their behavior, you will not like to be around your kid. Yes, this is true, whether you realize it or not; not saying that you do not love your kid, you can love and dislike your kids at the same time. So the idea is to teach your kids how to behave in different situations so that you AND other people will like your kids. When you like your kids, you will want to be around them more, and the more you're around them, the more chance they get to bathe in your love and also practice how to behave and many other things. They model after you, so the more interaction they get (assuming you're setting a good example), the better they'll prepare for life. Also, if other kids like your kids, they will be included in more activities and so they get to practice interacting and playing with other kids, which helps them practice how to behave in society. If other adults like your kids, they will want to teach them and to provide them with opportunities. Not saying EVEVERYONE will do these things for your kids but the probability that someone will have positive interactions with your kids is very high. This concept is from Jordan Peterson and this idea to create an application to manage this is sparked by Jordan Peterson's chat with Jocko Willink.

# Idea
Every kid (or adult for that matter) have behaviors relative to an activity that you either like (10) or dislike (1), on a scale from 1-10. This is what I'll call a likeness scale. It is quite measurable as a parent; you'd know how much you like a certain behavior relative to an activity, plus or minus 1. For example, on a scale from 1 to 10, on average how much do I like my kid during dinner time? Probably a 6. Each activity have many sub activities, for example, during dinner (or any other meal), they have to sit properly, use their spoons and forks, eat cleanly, eat most of their food, etc. When they're playing with other kids, being polite, sharing, hitting, shouting, etc. Each of these behaviors relative to the activity are behaviors you want them to either start doing, continue doing, or stop doing. The collective of these behaviors contributes to the likeness scale.

## Inventory of behaviors
So the first step is to do an inventory of each of your kids, based on activities and behaviors, and then specify a likeness number. For each kid, we will select/add activities; then under each activity, you'll add all of the behavior within that activity. Then you will score that activity on a likeness scale from 1-10.

For each behavior, you can also set a likeness score, this will help you keep track of their progress and what to help them stop doing. A "bad" behavior can be set to something like "stopped". A "good" behavior can continue to be on the list and can be improved upon. The reason why it should stay is because as they grow, that likeness scale on the behavior can change, you can always improve on the behavior even if it is already a 10; there's always room for improvement, whether or not you should focus on them is a different story.

## Psychological Traits (OCEAN) 
If you understand your kid to the point where you can identify their psychological traits, then this will help you a lot in setting expectations for work on each behavior. For example, if your kid is low on agreeableness, they're not rule followers, then expect to spend more time and effort in areas where you're trying to get them to follow rules; in the case of agreeableness, expect to spend more time and effort on A LOT of things.